# BotOrNot

## Overview
**BotOrNot** is an ML application designed to classify network traffic and determine if it is generated by a bot or a human. This project includes a Flask-based web server that provides an API for making predictions.

## Features
- **Model Prediction**: Predicts if the given network traffic is from a bot or a human.
- **Caching**: Uses Flask-Caching for improved performance by caching the results of predictions.
- **Swagger API Documentation**: Provides a user-friendly interface for interacting with the API.
- **Logging**: Logs the time taken to process each request for performance monitoring.

## Requirements
- Python 3.9
- Required Python packages (listed in `requirements.txt`)

## Setup Instructions

### Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/botornot.git
cd botornot
```
## Setup Instructions

### Create and Activate a Virtual Environment
```bash
python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`

### install Dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
### Model Files
Ensure that the best_model.pkl file is in the models directory.

## Test Model

### Run Flask Application
``` bash
cd src/
python deploy.py
```
The application will start and be accessible at http://127.0.0.1:5000.

## API Endpoints

### Health Check
- **URL:** `/`
- **Method:** `GET`
- **Description:** Returns a status message indicating the API is working.

### Predict
- **URL:** `/predict`
- **Method:** `POST`
- **Description:** Predicts if the input data is from a bot or a human.
- **Request Body:**
  ```json
  {
      "session_id": "be73c8d1b836170a21529a1b23140f8e",
      "epoch_ms": 1520280000000,
      "country_by_ip_address": "US",
      "region_by_ip_address": "CA",
      "url_without_parameters": "https://www.bol.com/nl/l/nieuwe-actie-avontuur-over-prive-detective/N/33590+26931+7289/",
      "referrer_without_parameters": "",
      "visitor_recognition_type": "ANONYMOUS"
  }
```
```
- **Response:**
  ```json
{
    "prediction": ["HT"]  # Example response
}
```
## Train new model

### Data Files
Ensure that the clickdata.csv file is in the data directory.
``` bash
cd src/
python train.py
```

### Performance Optimization
Caching has been implemented using Flask-Caching to improve response times and reduce server load by storing the results of predictions for repeated requests.

### Technical Performance
The application logs the time taken to process each request, providing insight into the performance of the model and the API.

### API Documentation
Swagger UI is available at http://127.0.0.1:5000/apidocs for interactive API documentation and testing.

### License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

